1 
 
Imperial College London 
imperial.ac.uk
 
 
 
 
 
 
Orientation Information 
 
for the use of new Visiting Students (non-degree) 
 
This covers exchange and non-exchange study periods  
commencing at the start of the academic year (2024-25) 
 
This document is produced by the Registry, Imperial College London. 
You can find a contents list on page 2. 
 
 
 
Welcome 
As a visiting (non-degree) student you are one of many arriving from a variety of countries  
as well as from within the UK. We hope that your stay at Imperial is an enjoyable one. 
 
 
 
We look forward to welcoming students to our campuses in autumn 2024 for an educational experience 
that will maximise in-person teaching and on-campus project supervision throughout the academic year 
unless we are prevented from doing so by any fresh UK government covid restrictions. 
 
As a university that offers a practical approach to learning, we are always very excited to be able to open 
the doors of our labs, workshops and other teaching facilities to our visiting non-degree students (such 
as our many exchange students). Perhaps your study plan is lecture/coursework/project based leading 
to examinations, or perhaps your focus is a project or research period, but whatever you are attending 
Imperial to undertake do take advantage of the many extra-curricular activities that our own students 
engage in. Getting the balance right between study and recreation is always a challenge and more so 
probably for students from abroad (where experiencing a new cultural environment is likely to be a 
motivation for many students coming to Imperial and London!) Above all we hope it is a time of discovery 
for you both in an academic and personal sense. We hope you are equally excited to be undertaking your 
mobility at Imperial. 
 
Some of the changes Imperial had to make to the learning experience over the period of the pandemic 
have worked well, and therefore Imperial has retained some of these approaches to enhance the overall 
experience on campus, for example, lectures, where these are relevant to a Visiting Student, may be 
hosted online when this method is deemed to be educationally beneficial to students. 
 
Exchange students: An exchange student who has queries concerning their study plan should email the 
exchange co-ordinator in their host department. A list of exchange co-ordinators can be found here: 
https://www.imperial.ac.uk/placements/student-exchanges/information-for-student-exchange-partner-
universities/ and for further advice please refer to pages 14-20. 
 
2 
 
Imperial College London 
imperial.ac.uk
 
CONTENTS (sections): 
 
Introduction 
3 - 4 
Understanding communications from Imperial, understanding our webpages and the My Imperial Campus App.  
Download the My Imperial Campus App (but please read this orientation document before using the App) 
4 
How to locate Imperial and a list of our campuses 
Quick Link: http://www.imperial.ac.uk/visit/campuses/  (South Kensington: http://www.imperial.ac.uk/visit/campuses/south-kensington/ ) 
Students living in an Imperial Hall of Residence will receive an induction which will provide bespoke travel guidance. 
5 
Term dates 
Alert: You should receive notification of the departmental welcome arrangements (from your host academic department) by Monday 
23 September. See also the section entitled “Your host academic department”. 
5 - 6 
Where to ask questions on campus & other university level points of contact.  
Includes the Student Hub (located both at South Kensington and White City) 
6 - 7 
Accommodation Whether or not you were eligible for Imperial accommodation. 
Quick Link: Moving into undergraduate halls of residence 
Quick Link: Preparation for students looking for private sector accommodation 
7 - 8 
Imperial enrolment (all students), including a statement on insurance 
Auto-emails are sent out from approximately 29 August advising on pre-arrival online enrolment. 
8 - 10 
International students (Student visa holders: more than 6 months): Important information for all student visa holders 
10 
Student access to computer, email, and other on-line services 
Quick Link: http://www.imperial.ac.uk/admin-services/ict/new-to-imperial/students/  
Important: use your Imperial mailbox daily from now on (all messages from Imperial will be sent to your Imperial mailbox). 
11 
College ID cards 
Read carefully so you know when your Imperial College London ID card will be made available for collection. 
11 - 12 
Safety; taking care of possessions; what to do in the event of an emergency/incident 
Caution: You are probably new to both Imperial and London. Take a moment to think about some serious issues. 
13 
Welcome arrangements: download the My Imperial Campus App 
For the week beginning Monday 30 September all visiting students should follow the instructions emailed to them by their host 
academic department. If you have not received these instructions by 23 September, please email a.hawksworth@imperial.ac.uk 
14 
Imperial College Union (ICU), including the ICU Welcome Fair & the Erasmus Club 
All new exchange students should receive a welcome letter from the Erasmus Club during September. 
14 - 15 
Your host academic department: Induction, discussing study plans (administration of study plans) & much more 
Alert: You should receive pre-arrival information from your host department no later than Monday 23 September. 
15 - 19 
Documents (e.g. Certificates of attendance; Learning Agreements; Release of grades/marks; Transcripts) 
The information on release of grades/marks and the production of transcripts is very important.  
Retain this document for reference at the end of your enrolment. 
19 - 22 
English language support (The Centre for Academic English) 
Quick Link: http://www.imperial.ac.uk/academic-english  
22 
Library facilities 
Quick link: http://www.imperial.ac.uk/students/new-students/undergraduates/arrivals-and-induction/library-and-it/ 
Quick link (Student Support Zone): https://www.imperial.ac.uk/student-support-zone/  
22 
Disability Advisory Service 
Quick Link: www.imperial.ac.uk/disabilityadvisoryservice               Read about other support services in our Student Support Zone. 
22 
Health care in the UK 
 
23 
Various: Imperial sports and leisure facilities and places to eat. General guidance on living in London. 
 
24 
Travelling in the London area. Important information for students using transport in London. 
24 - 25 
UK bank accounts      Quick Link: https://www.imperial.ac.uk/student-records-and-data/for-current-students/request-an-official-document/  
25 
Council Tax (for private accommodation)    
Quick Link: https://www.imperial.ac.uk/student-records-and-data/for-current-students/request-an-official-document/ 
25 
Making the most of your time in the UK: a few ideas! 
26 
3 
 
Imperial College London 
imperial.ac.uk
 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
This document has been produced to help you (a visiting non-degree student, often an exchange 
student) to: 
(1) make sense of the information that is available on the Imperial website and in other places. 
(2) to help you understand information provided by host departments. 
(3) to help you understand the services provided by Imperial. 
 
Review the helpful ‘contents’ list on page 2.  
 
Throughout this document we have highlighted important actions and sections in bold and yellow, but 
this is not exhaustive so do read the whole document. Refer to this document throughout your time 
at Imperial, especially about (if it is relevant to your study plan) how transcripts (official document 
details marks/grades and credits) are published.  
 
While enrolled as a student at Imperial a Visiting Student has the responsibility to inform themselves and 
to ask any questions. 
 
Sometimes Imperial refers to “visiting students” as “occasional” students. 
 
A few important notices to start with! 
 
• 
Imperial’s academic year commences on Saturday 28 September 2024 (for term dates see page 5). 
On campus engagement would normally commence from Monday 30 September. See “Teaching” below. 
 
• 
Imperial will continue to provide covid-19 advice: http://www.imperial.ac.uk/about/covid-19/  
 
• 
Important: use your Imperial mailbox daily as soon as you have access (all messages from Imperial 
will be sent to your Imperial mailbox). 
 
• 
Download the My Imperial Campus App but read this document first!!!! 
 
• 
Accommodation: read the section on page 7. 
      -  Imperial halls of residence are only available to eligible undergraduate exchange students.  
          -  Private housing: https://www.imperial.ac.uk/students/accommodation/private-accommodation/  
 
• 
International students (non-UK/Ireland):  
       - important information/guidance for international students is included in the enrolment section (p.8-10) 
       - when can you travel to the UK? 
         Answer: you can arrive before your course starts. This can be either: 
             ˃ up to 1 week before, if your course lasts 6 months or less. 
             ˃ up to 1 month before, if your course lasts more than 6 months. 
             however, you must not travel to the UK before the start date given on any visa. 
        - when should you depart the UK? 
          Answer: you should depart by the end date on your visa. 
˃ if your course is longer than 12 months: 
  your student visa should expire 4 months after your course end date as given on your CAS. 
˃ if your course is between 6 – 12 months long: 
  your student visa should expire 2 months after the course end date given on your CAS. 
˃ if your course is no more than 6 months:  
  you need to leave the UK before your permission to be in the UK expires, 
  so this will be 6 months after your course start date.  
        - you should not presume you can extend your stay.  
             ˃ seek guidance from Imperial’s International Student Support team. 
 
4 
 
Imperial College London 
imperial.ac.uk
 
• 
Teaching will be timetabled by each academic department. Teaching might not commence until 
Monday 7 October however, some teaching may commence as early as Tuesday 1 October. Exchange 
Students should refer to correspondence from their host academic department which they should 
receive no later than Monday 23 September. See also the section on pages 15-19. 
 
• 
Welcome activities will be provided in Week 1, including the South Kensington campus-based 
Welcome Fair on Tuesday 1 October: see page 14 for further details.  
 
 
 
Understanding communications from Imperial, understanding Imperial’s webpages and 
introducing the My Imperial Campus App 
 
(1) Auto-emails from Imperial 
- 
As you are due to arrive at the start of Imperial’s academic year, Imperial will email you (auto emails) 
about a.) tasks to undertake and b.) information of importance or interest, but unfortunately those 
communications do not normally differentiate between a new full-degree student and a new “visiting 
(non-degree) student, and this can sometimes lead to confusion on the part of the visiting (non-
degree) student. If you are confused, you can email a.hawksworth@imperial.ac.uk for help. 
 
(2) Exchange students 
- 
Exchange students will receive bespoke emails from the student exchange co-ordinator, Mr Adrian 
Hawksworth (see also page 6) and (importantly) from their host academic department. 
 
(3) Imperial’s “new students” webpages 
- 
Our “new students” webpages are designed for undergraduate and postgraduate full degree 
students, and not specifically for visiting non-degree students such as an exchange student. 
Therefore, it is very important that a new visiting non-degree student reads this orientation 
information document before reading the many relevant webpages across Imperial’s website.  
- 
On the “your first week here” page (https://www.imperial.ac.uk/students/new-students/your-first-week-
here/) you will find a helpful “Imperial events” calendar. You can search by key word, for example 
“welcome”, and many relevant events will appear. However, as a visiting student you will need to 
decide how relevant these events are. Your host academic department will notify you about some 
of these events AND they will also notify you of departmental events. 
- 
If you are an international student you may still find the term “TIER 4” referred to on webpages or in 
Handbooks instead of the up-to-date term “Student Route Visa (admissions for more than 6 
months)”. TIER 4 is an old term for Student Visa.  
- 
From 5 Sept: If you click the “Exchange Students” item at the bottom of http://www.imperial.ac.uk/students/new-students/ 
you will be taken to https://www.imperial.ac.uk/placements/student-exchanges/information-for-student-exchange-
partner-universities/ where you can find a copy of this document. 
 
(4) Download the My Imperial Campus App (but please finish reading this orientation document first) 
- 
The My Imperial Campus App has current functionality like campus maps, a chat bot to find 
resources, “Imperial events”. 
- 
Depending on your host department it may also include (but not necessarily straight away for a new 
visiting/exchange student) your timetable and class check-in (for attendance monitoring). This 
feature is being piloted and therefore not all students will have access to it. However, Visiting 
students (especially exchange students) must note that even if their host department is 
piloting use of this feature/function their own timetable will not necessarily appear on My 
Imperial Campus App until they have arrived and been inducted by their host dept. 
- 
When your host department contacts you please look for references to My Imperial Campus App, and 
if you are unsure you can contact the host department for clarification. 
 
5 
 
Imperial College London 
imperial.ac.uk
 
 
 
HOW TO LOCATE IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 
 
By the time you read this document you are likely to have already planned your journey to London. The 
following website provides helpful advice about the location of our campuses and how to reach them: 
http://www.imperial.ac.uk/visit/campuses/.  
 
However, if you have been admitted as an undergraduate student and have or will have secured 
(accepted) accommodation in an Imperial hall of residence please see your online accommodation 
induction (after you have accepted a room in a hall of residence). This will provide information regarding 
travelling arrangements to your hall of residence. 
 
Most visiting students are taught on the South Kensington campus.  
Exceptions: Chemistry students are mainly taught at our White City Campus; while some students 
studying life sciences or medical-related disciplines (ordinarily projects) may find themselves taught at 
other campuses: 
• 
White City campus 
• 
St Mary’s campus in Paddington 
• 
Hammersmith campus 
• 
Royal Brompton campus in South Kensington 
• 
Charing Cross campus in Baron’s Court 
• 
Chelsea & Westminster campus in Chelsea 
• 
North West London Hospitals campus (Northwick Park Hospital; St Mark’s Hospital) in Harrow 
• 
Silwood Park (Ascot, Berkshire - outside London to the west) 
Unless you are told otherwise assume your main campus is South Kensington. 
 
If you do need to travel between campuses you can use TfL routes OR if you are travelling between South 
Kensington and White City you can review the timetable for the College’s own shuttle-bus. 
 
 
 
 
TERM DATES FOR 2024-25 
 
Term 1 (Autumn Term):  
Saturday 28 September 2024 to Friday 13 December 2024 
Term 2 (Spring Term):  
Saturday 4 January 2025 to Friday 21 March 2025 
Term 3 (Summer Term):  
Saturday 26 April 2025 to Friday 27 June 2025 
 
New visiting students: 
• 
The official start date is Saturday 28 September. Campus attendance is naturally from the Monday.  
• 
On campus welcome activities (for undergraduates and postgraduates) from Sunday 29 September. 
• 
Teaching will be timetabled per academic department. Teaching might commence as early as 
Tuesday 1 October. However, most teaching will be timetabled to commence from Thursday 3rd or 
Monday 7th October. 
 
Important notes regarding Imperial’s term dates: https://www.imperial.ac.uk/admin-services/registry/term-dates/  
• 
These are term dates, not accommodation occupation dates. 
• 
Imperial does not have a semester system. However, depts might deliver teaching/exams in a 
semester style. 
6 
 
Imperial College London 
imperial.ac.uk
 
• 
The summer term for undergraduates is typically focused on preparation for examinations, actual 
examinations and project work. However, and depending on the academic department in question, 
examinations can/do take place at other times during the academic year. 
• 
Approved attendance by a visiting student can also include part/all of the period of July to Sept 2025. 
• 
Important: The dates of study periods for students who are admitted to undertake a project can 
sometimes not mirror/match term-dates. Dates of attendance for projects are normally decided after 
consultation with the host supervisor. 
 
 
 
 
WHERE TO ASK QUESTIONS AT IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 
& OTHER UNIVERSITY LEVEL POINTS OF CONTACT 
 
We hope that this document will answer most, if not all, questions/concerns you may have.   
 
Further questions can be addressed to the points of contact referred to throughout this document. 
Always quote your 8-digit Imperial College Identifier Number (CID) in any email. 
 
The principal “point of contact” for asking questions is our Student Hub: 
• 
https://www.imperial.ac.uk/student-hub/ 
 
 
 
• 
email: student.hub@imperial.ac.uk 
• 
The Student Hub is a physical “office” based on the South Kensington Campus (Sherfield Building), 
which also has a presence on the White City campus. Please check the Hub’s website for opening 
times; and any booking system which may be in operation at the beginning of the academic 
year. If you visit the Student Hub in person, please note that the closing times are tightly controlled 
so try not to arrive when the Student Hub is due to close!! It is important that you have sufficient time 
to liaise properly with staff and them with you. 
 
OTHER UNIVERSITY LEVEL POINTS OF CONTACT: 
 
• 
Exchange students: Mr Adrian Hawksworth, Assistant Registrar for Placements (part of the 
Academic Registry team). Adrian is Imperial’s Student Exchange Co-ordinator. Please feel free to 
email a.hawksworth@imperial.ac.uk or phone +44 (0)20 7594 8044 (internal extension 48044). If 
you phone, please leave a message as Adrian works mostly from home.  Adrian has been co-
ordinating Imperial’s student exchanges for many years and is always happy to help with general 
queries and/or signpost students to other staff within Imperial who can help them with their 
concerns/questions. However, please do not use MS Teams or Zoom to contact Adrian. 
 
• 
All students: Our International Student Support (ISS) team (part of the Academic Registry team) 
supports all international students, including visiting students, with visa related queries. Their 
website (https://www.imperial.ac.uk/students/international-students/) also contains practical advice for 
all international students who are new to London and Imperial. The ISS Team also provide trips and 
events for international students (see page 26). 
 
• 
All students: Our Student Records team (part of the Academic Registry team) is responsible for 
ensuring your “record” is accurate; Our Assessments Records team (part of the Academic Registry 
Team) is responsible for allocating official assessment results (grades/marks) to a student’s My 
Imperial account and for overseeing the dissemination of official assessment results to exchange 
students’ home institutions. Please see later section (Documents, pages 19-21) for information 
on, for example, how and when transcripts (grade reports) are produced. 
7 
 
Imperial College London 
imperial.ac.uk
 
 
• 
Student Accommodation Office: https://www.imperial.ac.uk/students/accommodation/  
 
• 
All students should note a.) The Registry is responsible for student exchange links and not 
Imperial’s International Relations Office (IRO), b.) the person responsible for any exchange 
arrangements with your home university is Mr Adrian Hawksworth* and c.) the International Student 
Support team (which is part of the Registry Team) and the International Relations Office (IRO) are 
separate Offices. * The IRO co-ordinates the MIT-Imperial student exchange. 
 
Naturally, you will normally only receive an answer to an email or a phone call during “office hours” but 
see a later section of this document (page 13) for what to do in an emergency. 
 
You can also ask your host academic department relevant questions, however, we just ask you to be 
aware of the university-level offices/people (listed above) who may be able to answer a question more fully.  
 
See also the section entitled ‘Your host academic department’ (see pages 15-19). 
 
 
 
COLLEGE ACCOMMODATION (Halls of Residence) 
 
Undergraduate 
 
• 
Undergraduate exchange students who have been admitted for a full academic year and a.) 
submitted the appropriate accommodation application to the Student Accommodation Office (for a 
place in an Imperial hall of residence) by the 19 July and b.) held an unconditional offer of admission 
by 23 August will be notified about their room allocation during the three weeks beginning 26 August 
(most commonly from 2 September).  
 
= Students normally have a limited timeframe in which to accept any “offer” of a room (or “reject”). 
 
= This “timeframe” is normally as short as two days. Check your mailboxes daily. 
        
= Students will only receive one offer of a room. If the offer of accommodation is rejected no                            
                    further offers will be made. 
         
= Students who accept the offer of accommodation will be directed to complete an on-line  
                    induction on the Accommodation Hub. 
         
= Rooms are normally available for occupancy on either Saturday 28 Sept or Sunday 29 Sept. 
 
     - Students will be able to pick an arrival time.  
 
     - Our halls in North Acton may allow arrival one or two days before the 28th (therefore, if you are  
                        offered a room in a hall in North Acton then review the on-line induction for further details:  
                        arrival day information) 
 
= Therefore, if you wish to arrive in London before 28 September and you cannot access your hall  
                    of residence straight away then you will be responsible for those arrangements and any costs. 
 
= Further information, including insight into the one-line hall induction 
                    at https://www.imperial.ac.uk/students/accommodation/moving-into-halls/.  
 
= If circumstances mean you will be arriving anytime from Monday 30 September onwards,  
 
    please email your hall team to let them know your arrival plans.  
 
View your private and Imperial mailbox daily. Check your spam      
 
• 
All other undergraduate students (including those attending Imperial for shorter periods of study) will 
not be offered the opportunity to apply for a room before the start of the academic year. However, 
keep an eye on your mailboxes daily because if you are given the opportunity to apply for a 
room in a hall of residence and you are offered a room you will have only a very limited period 
in which to accept. 
 
8 
 
Imperial College London 
imperial.ac.uk
 
Postgraduate (PG) 
 
• 
All PG visiting students, including exchange, are ineligible to apply for College halls of residence.  
 
ARE YOU STILL LOOKING FOR ACCOMMODATION? 
 
a.) Postgraduates and undergraduates seeking private sector accommodation:  
 
• 
We advise you to commence your search for private sector accommodation using the resources provided by 
the Student Accommodation Office (SAO). If you don’t have housing arranged when you are due to travel to 
London please do consider arriving a few days in advance of your “start-date” to give you time to search. 
Finding housing in London, especially for short periods can be difficult. 
• 
The SAO’s webpages on private accommodation are very comprehensive. Whether you are starting your 
search or need advice and assistance (for example, how to deal with landlords, agents, contracts and 
deposits) you will find all the information you need at: 
        https://www.imperial.ac.uk/students/accommodation/private-accommodation 
        (importantly)https://www.imperial.ac.uk/students/accommodation/private-accommodation/additional-support/ 
• 
The 
Imperial 
Home 
Solutions 
facility 
is 
very 
helpful 
: 
https://www.imperial.ac.uk/students/accommodation/private-accommodation/private-accommodation/   
• 
Contact the SAO (accommodation@imperial.ac.uk) for advice if the SAO webpages don’t answer your queries.  
• 
Exchange students who have not obtained housing by 28 September are advised to keep Mr Adrian 
Hawksworth informed. 
•   Important: When you have obtained private accommodation please update the term-time address  
        section on My Imperial (My Personal Details). 
 
ACCOMMODATION DURING THE 2025 SUMMER VACATION: If the end date of your study period falls 
after the end of Imperial’s academic year (27 June 2025), then an alternative source of accommodation for the 
period July to mid-Sept 2025 is student summer vacation accommodation administered by the Student 
Accommodation Office. Please note: this type of accommodation cannot normally be applied for until spring 2025. 
 
 
 
IMPERIAL ENROLMENT: On-line enrolment for all students: 
https://www.imperial.ac.uk/students/new-students/undergraduates/before-you-arrive/enrolment/online-enrolment/ 
 
NEW visiting (non-degree) students should enrol online using their “My Imperial” account, when 
prompted by Imperial. 
 
Please note: Visiting students (exchange and non-exchange) are expected to have fulfilled any offer 
conditions (of admission) AND when not a UK or Rep of Ireland national to have uploaded a copy of their 
passport and visa/entry document to My Imperial before they can complete their on-line enrolment. 
 
How to enrol on-line (video) 
• Log on to your My Imperial account.  
• Click on My Personal Details and check/complete relevant fields. Includes providing emergency 
contact details for a parent or relative. If you do not know your term-time address in London then use your 
“home address” BUT update it as soon as you know it. Unless you expect to be paid a bursary by Imperial 
(normally only some research postgraduates) then you will not need to complete the bank details section. 
• Upload a digital photo of yourself for your ID card at My ID Photo. Watch the above video as it will 
remind you that the photo you upload must conform to certain requirements. 
• If you need to upload a visa/passport and other associated (often travel) documents click on 
My Passport, Visa and CAS.  
See the guidance notes below if you are entering on a Student Visa or a Visitor Visa. 
9 
 
Imperial College London 
imperial.ac.uk
 
• Then click on My Student Record; complete the requests; resolve any “errors” and then enrol. 
• Please note (important) your enrolment will be “pending” on My Imperial until all requested 
information has been provided and relevant documents have been uploaded and have been checked 
online. Only then will your My Imperial account indicate that your READY-TO-ENROL. 
• Download your “enrolment confirmation”. We suggest printing or at least keeping an accessible 
electronic version in case you are asked to show it to staff at Imperial. 
• See “resolving technical problems” below should you run into problems. 
 
Guidance for students entering on a Student Visa: see the section on page 10 entitled “International 
Students : Student visa holders (study periods of more than 6 months)” 
 
Guidance for students entering on a Visitor Visa: 
• 
EU/EEA/Swiss nationals entering as visitors who can use E-gates AND non-visa nationals 
(certain nationalities only) who can use E-gates will not be stamped in at the UK border. 
Therefore, you will need to provide evidence of your arrival date to the UK and upload evidence in the 
form of your boarding pass or booking confirmation to My Imperial. Please upload your boarding pass 
or travel information to My Imperial under the My Visa section. You can select “Short Term Other” as 
the visa type and enter the start date as date of arrival to the UK and end date as the end date of your 
course or return date. In the visa number field you can state “ticket”. 
• 
If you are a non-EU/EEA/Swiss national then depending on your nationality, you will either 
need to obtain a Visitor Visa prior to arriving in the UK or non-visa nationals (certain 
nationalities only) can seek permission to enter as a visitor upon entry to the UK. In both cases, 
as a visitor, you are restricted to study periods of 6 months or less and will have no working rights in 
the UK. You must wait until your arrival to the UK to 1. Upload a copy of your visitor visa or entry 
stamp to the My Visa section and 2. to complete your on-line enrolment. 
 
Guidance for students who have pre-settled or settled status under the European Settlement 
Scheme:  
• 
EU/EEA nationals only - If you have pre-settled or settled status under the European Settlement 
Scheme: you are required to generate a share code via the UK government website which we will 
need to check and verify your status. The code to prove your immigration status is different to the 
code for right to work or right to rent checks. When prompted please select it is for “something else”. 
Please ensure you generate the correct code which can be done here: https://www.gov.uk/view-prove-
immigration-status . Once you have the share code, please log in to My Imperial and go to My Visa. In 
the Visa Type, you will need to select EU and then in the visa number please input the share code 
which will be checked by Imperial.  You can also enter the start and end date of your permission. 
 
Please note (important) your enrolment will be “pending” on My Imperial until all requested information 
has been provided and relevant documents have been uploaded and have been checked online. Only 
then will your My Imperial account indicate that your READY-TO-ENROL. 
 
Resolving technical problems 
• 
If for any reason you are unable to enrol online (for example, you may experience technical 
problems) you may seek assistance at the Student Hub (see earlier section) or by emailing the ICT 
Service Desk (see also page 10). Remember: when contacting any section within Imperial please 
provide your CID number and please be patient while awaiting a response. 
• 
Perhaps you have forgotten your My Imperial username/password details? If you have 
forgotten your password, then go to: https://www.imperial.ac.uk/ict/passwords/. However, if you still 
experience problems then phone our ICT Service Desk on +44(0)2075949000 quoting your CID number.  
 
10 
 
Imperial College London 
imperial.ac.uk
 
Outcomes of enrolment 
• Terms and conditions of enrolment: as flagged as you proceed through the enrolment process. 
      - For example: 
         - you must abide by Imperial’s Student Code of Conduct which sets out expectations for behaviours: 
           https://www.imperial.ac.uk/about/governance/academic-governance/academic-policy/student-code-of-conduct/   
         AND  
         - you must abide by Imperial’s Information Security Policy, IT Acceptable Use policy and policy on 
           monitoring electronic communications: https://www.imperial.ac.uk/admin-services/ict/self-service/computers-printing/conditions-of-use-of-it-resources/  
• Academic Regulations: By enrolling you are agreeing to abide by the appropriate set of regulations 
      as they are relevant to Visiting (non-degree) Students. The new regulations for 2024-25 are located at 
      https://www.imperial.ac.uk/about/governance/academic-governance/regulations/ . 
• Please 
note 
Imperial’s 
Privacy 
notices, 
including 
the 
“privacy 
notice 
for 
students”: 
https://www.imperial.ac.uk/admin-services/secretariat/information-governance/data-protection/processing-personal-data/privacy-notices/  
• Insurance: Enrolment as a student at Imperial means that you are covered by Imperial’s employer and 
public liability insurance policy while on campus, and off-campus should your host academic 
department require you to attend off-site teaching activities. 
• Consent Matters: Important: Imperial College London is committed to being a respectful and 
safe environment for everyone. After you have completed enrolment Imperial will expect you to complete 
a short on-line course on consent and why it matters unless you opt out. Therefore, after you have 
completed enrolment on My Imperial we will send a message to a student’s Imperial mailbox providing 
instructions for accessing the on-line course (including how to opt out). 
 
If you have any queries concerning the above please contact Adrian Hawksworth, Assistant Registrar 
(Placements): a.hawksworth@imperial.ac.uk (Academic Quality and Standards team, Registry). 
 
 
 
Student visa holders (study periods of more than 6 months) 
 
Please respond promptly to any communications from Imperial’s Visa Compliance team: 
visacompliance@imperial.ac.uk   
 
• 
If you are non-EU/EEA national and applied overseas for your Student Visa then our Visa 
Compliance team will email you when your BRP arrives at Imperial. You will be requested to 
provide evidence of your entry to the UK.  Once this is checked, you will need to be sent an appointment 
link to book an appointment. You will be able to collect your Biometric Residence Permit (BRP) at the 
appointment. However, if you are not collecting your BRP from Imperial and collecting it from the Post Office 
then you will need to upload a copy of your entry evidence such as a copy of your stamped 90-day entry 
vignette and both sides of your BRP to My Imperial.  
 
• 
If you are an EU/EEA national then you will receive digital immigration status.  
- You will need to ensure you generate a share code via the UK government website which we will  
   need to check and verify your status.  
- The code to prove your immigration status is different to the code for right to work or right to rent  
   checks. When prompted please select it is for “something else”.  
- Please ensure you generate the correct code which can be done here: https://www.gov.uk/view-prove-immigration-status. 
- Once you have the share code, please log in to My Imperial and go to My Visa. In the Visa Type, you  
  will need to select SV and then in the visa number please input the share code which Imperial will  
  check.  You should also enter the start and end date of your permission. You will also need to  
  provide evidence of your entry to the UK in the form of a boarding pass or travel confirmation.  
- Please note, you must only travel to the UK on or after the start of your digital immigration  
  permission. 
 
 
11 
 
Imperial College London 
imperial.ac.uk
 
 
STUDENT ACCESS TO COMPUTER AND ON-LINE SERVICES (including email) 
 
You will access Imperial computer and on-line services using the same username & password that you 
use 
for 
My 
Imperial. 
Please 
go 
to 
http://www.imperial.ac.uk/admin-services/ict/new-to-
imperial/students/ to ensure you are familiar with all aspects of student ICT provision, in particular: 
 
• 
Your Imperial mailbox: You should have already have access your Imperial mailbox if you hold an 
unconditional offer of admission to Imperial. Please ensure you use your Imperial mailbox for 
university related correspondence. All important notifications from Imperial will be sent to 
your Imperial mailbox. Check it daily. 
 
• 
Virtual Learning Environments (VLE): Your host academic department will indicate what VLE is in 
use. Commonly, it is Blackboard or Panopto, but some departments may use other VLEs. Wait until 
you receive welcome information from your host academic department during September. 
 
• 
File storage options; Library access; Printing/copying/scanning. 
 
If you are unsure of your password use the “reset your password” function on My Imperial or call the ICT 
Service (Help) Desk on +44(0)2075949000, remembering to state your CID number. Password 
information cannot be given out over email for security reasons.  
 
All queries/questions concerning computer accounts should be addressed to the ICT Service Desk.  
The physical location of the ICT Service Desk is the Abdus Salam Library, South Kensington Campus. 
 
You must abide by the appropriate Imperial policies, including Imperial’s Information Security Policy, IT 
Acceptable 
Use 
policy 
and 
policy 
on 
monitoring 
electronic 
communications: 
https://www.imperial.ac.uk/admin-services/ict/self-service/computers-printing/conditions-of-use-of-it-resources/  
 
 
 
IMPERIAL ID CARDS 
 
When completing pre-arrival on-line enrolment using My Imperial you will be asked to upload a 
digital photo of yourself via My ID Photo. This is very important. 
 
If you have uploaded a digital photo AND are able to complete pre-arrival on-line enrolment by 
Friday 27 September, your ID card will normally be available for collection as follows: 
 
• 
from your Imperial hall of residence on Saturday 28 September or Sunday 29 September if you are an 
undergraduate expecting to live in an Imperial hall of residence. To note: if you are an undergraduate 
living in an Imperial hall of residence and you are not given your Imperial ID card on either 28 or 29 
Sept then the hall of residence will issue you with a temporary card/key for access to the hall of 
residence until you obtain your ID card (see further down). 
 
OR 
 
• 
(all other students) from your host academic department (normally during the week commencing 
Monday 30 September) after attending an in-person or remote departmental safety talk. If unsure 
contact the relevant “Student” Office (e.g. Undergraduate Office; Education Office) in your host 
academic department. 
 
 
continued on next page….. 
12 
 
Imperial College London 
imperial.ac.uk
 
In all other situations, once you have completed your on-line enrolment: 
 
• 
If you do not have a photo to upload you may GO TO the Imperial ID Card Office (with a printed or 
digital copy of your “enrolment confirmation” from My Imperial) during the week commencing 
Monday 30 September to have your photo taken. Warning: Queues. The Imperial ID Card Office is 
situated next to vending machines in the entrance lobby on Level 1, Sherfield Building, South 
Kensington Campus. The ID Card Office opening hours: Monday-Friday are normally 09:00 – 
13:30 (subject to change). 
 
• 
ID cards which are produced/issued by the Imperial ID Card Office during the period Monday 30 
September to Friday 4 October will normally be distributed to students via their host academic 
department (via the relevant “Student Office” in your host academic department). 
 
• 
To note: if you are an undergraduate living in an Imperial hall of residence and your Imperial ID card is not 
available on either 28 or 29 Sept at your hall of residence, then your hall of residence will normally issue you 
with a temporary card/key for access to the hall of residence until you obtain your Imperial ID card. When your 
Imperial ID card has been issued remember to take your temporary card/key to your hall of residence office to 
double-check that hall “access” has been added to your Imperial ID card and to return the temporary card/key. 
 
• 
ID cards produced from 7 October will normally be issued immediately by or can be collected from 
the Imperial ID Card Office. 
 
• 
No ID card should be issued until on-line enrolment has been completed. 
 
Purpose of the Imperial ID Card: Your ID Card has five purposes and must always be carried with you 
whilst on campus and (if relevant) in your hall of residence (use a lanyard if you prefer): 
1. ID for when it is requested by Imperial staff. 
2. Library card (see later section, page 21) and Ethos (Sports Centre) card (subject to completing 
membership and induction: see later section, page 22). 
3. Swipe-card access to the campus buildings and halls of residence you have an entitlement to 
enter (please note that access to most halls of residence is by this method, although some halls of 
residence provide a separate key or card). 
4. Enables you to pay the student payment rate (discounted rate) on purchases made at Imperial 
managed shops and cafes (most importantly, on the South Kensington Campus, at the Junior 
Common Room and Queens Tower Rooms): http://www.imperial.ac.uk/food-and-drink 
5. Finally, and importantly, the ID card acts as confirming your status as a student of Imperial, and 
allows you to access the services of the Imperial College (Students) Union (see later section on page 13). 
 
Full advice on collecting your Imperial ID card - including what to do if you lose your ID card or it is 
stolen - go to the UG or PG section (as appropriate) at: https://www.imperial.ac.uk/students/new-students/your-first-week-here/   
 
Undergraduate or Postgraduate? For purposes of enrolment, your “enrolment confirmation” will state 
that you either an “undergraduate” or a “postgraduate”. This may be confusing to some visiting (non-
degree) students who are used to a bachelor/masters/doctoral system in their home country. Therefore: 
• 
If you are following a study plan comprised of courses/modules from the curriculum of a BSc/BEng or 
MSci/MEng or MBBS degree programme, then you are classified as an “undergraduate”.   
• 
If you are undertaking a study plan based on a graduate-level MSc programme or you are undertaking a masters 
level project you would normally be classified as a “postgraduate”.  
• 
If you are currently a PhD student at another university then you will be classified as a postgraduate student. 
If you think this will pose you any problems, please email a.hawksworth@imperial.ac.uk  
 
 
13 
 
Imperial College London 
imperial.ac.uk
 
 
SAFETY, TAKING CARE OF POSSESSIONS & WHAT TO DO IN THE EVENT OF AN EMERGENCY OR 
INCIDENT 
 
 
SAFETY 
 
All students who are new to Imperial are required (i.e. it’s compulsory, mandatory) to undertake a 
Safety Induction.  
• 
For undergraduates living in an Imperial hall of residence there will normally be a safety talk in the hall 
of residence when you first arrive, followed by a timetabled safety induction (in Week 1) in your host 
academic department. 
• 
For all other students there will be a safety induction in their host academic department. 
You may be required to attend further safety talks/briefings during your stay. 
 
If a student is undertaking a project or research period as their study period or as part of a study period 
(either from the start of their study period or commencing during their study period) then the student 
should not commence their project or research period until they have completed all safety induction to 
the satisfaction of their host academic department. 
 
Safety talks (safety processes) are very important. Do not delay attending a safety talk or 
completing, where necessary, any Safety Induction document. 
 
 
TAKE CARE! 
• 
Please ensure you always act responsibly, both on or off campus, whilst you are a student at 
Imperial: https://www.imperial.ac.uk/admin-services/security/safe-and-secure/   
• 
Always take care of your valuables, including whilst on campus: While this is obvious advice, 
please remember that the South Kensington Campus is an open (public) campus. 
• 
Be “IT secure”:  http://www.imperial.ac.uk/admin-services/ict/self-service/be-secure/  
 
 
WHAT TO DO IN THE EVENT OF AN INCIDENT ON CAMPUS 
 
It is important for you to know how to react if you need to respond to or report an emergency involving 
yourself or others on campus.  
 
Please review the Security Office website: https://www.imperial.ac.uk/admin-services/security/   
 
For example: 
• 
Your Safety Induction will cover how to respond to the fire alarm. 
• 
The emergency phone number for the South Kensington Campus is 020 7589 1000.  
• 
Emergency 
phone 
numbers 
for 
other 
campuses 
at 
https://www.imperial.ac.uk/admin-
services/security/contact-us/    
• 
IMPORTANT: Please ensure your department has your mobile phone number when requested, and 
that your personal details (address; phone numbers etc.) are up to date on My Imperial. 
 
 
 
14 
 
Imperial College London 
imperial.ac.uk
 
 
WELCOME ARRANGEMENTS 
 
Imperial College London and the Imperial College [Students] Union (ICU) are planning welcome activities 
that will take place both on campus and via on-line platforms. While some activities may commence on-
line during late September the majority of welcome activities will be on on-campus during Week 1 (28 
September to 6 October).  
 
To help you work out what to do and when, please also read ALL the information which your host 
academic department should have emailed you by Monday 23 September. This should inform you as 
to which events you are already timetabled to attend, but also whether you have the time available to 
attend other welcome events (as noted above) provided by Imperial. An exchange student who has not 
received instructions from their host academic department by Monday 23 September should email 
Adrian Hawksworth: a.hawksworth@imperial.ac.uk 
 
New students webpages: On the “your first week here” page (https://www.imperial.ac.uk/students/new-
students/your-first-week-here/) you will find a helpful “Imperial events” calendar. 
- 
You can search by key word, for example “welcome”, and many relevant events will appear.  
- 
A similar feature can be found on the My Imperial Campus app.  
- 
CAUTION: as a visiting student (i.e. an experienced higher education student) you will need to 
decide how relevant these events are. Participation in Imperial events is not mandatory so make 
your own minds up what you’ll benefit from. 
- 
Your host academic department will also notify you about some of these university events AND they 
will also notify you of departmental events. 
- 
Important: Exchange students living in Imperial halls of residence will find that their hall also 
schedules “welcome” activities. 
 
The most notable university and ICU in-person events for visiting/exchange students are: 
- 
the International Student Welcome Event (with talks introducing Imperial College PLUS an 
information fair aimed at International Students, including the Erasmus Club) on Sunday 29 
September (postgraduates in the morning; undergraduates in the afternoon) 
- 
Discover Imperial Fair (South Kensington campus) and the Imperial College Union Market Day 
(Beit Quad, South Kensington campus) on Monday 30 September. 
- 
the Imperial College Union Welcome Fair on Tuesday 1 October across the South Kensington 
Campus (see later section…don’t miss this event!). 
- 
The International Gathering: https://www.imperial.ac.uk/events/180368/welcome-week-international-gathering/ 
- 
ESN Erasmus Club events (normally) from Week 2. See next section. 
 
 
 
IMPERIAL COLLEGE (STUDENTS) UNION 
 
Imperial College Union (ICU) is the student body.  
 
• 
As an enrolled student at Imperial you automatically become a member of ICU. Your Imperial ID card 
confirms your student status at Imperial (for accessing ICU services).  
 
• 
ICU provide many services and resources (including the running of many ICU delivered Welcome 
events/activities) for students. 
 
15 
 
Imperial College London 
imperial.ac.uk
 
• 
Please acquaint yourself with the location of the ICU offices and facilities. The ICU is located in Beit 
Quad on the South Kensington Campus (see online maps).  
 
• 
The 2024 WELCOME FAIR will take place on Tuesday 1 October. The Clubs & Societies of the 
Imperial College Union (and much more) will be represented at the Welcome Fair, including the 
Erasmus Club (see below). Don’t miss it!!! 
 
• 
View information on the ICU’s many Clubs and Societies (including the Erasmus Club), Welcome 
Fair 
(see 
above), 
FELIX 
(Felix 
is 
the 
ICU 
student 
newspaper: 
https://www.imperialcollegeunion.org/activities/a-to-z/felix). 
 
• 
Places to Eat and Drink operated by the Imperial College Union 
 
• 
IMPORTANT!!  ICU has an Advice Centre for all students. The Advice Centre provide lots of useful 
information on academic issues, for example on exams, and non-academic issues.  
 
Our ERASMUS Club (Erasmus Student Network: ESN)  
 
• 
The Club is normally active throughout the year, although mainly from October until mid/late March. 
The Erasmus Club is run by students who were mainly studying abroad in 2023-24. The club aims to 
meet regularly, and organise a variety of visits, parties and events. However, to benefit from their 
events, you will need to take out membership of the Club but that normally includes an ESN card 
[external link].  
 
• 
All new exchange students will receive a welcome letter from the Erasmus Club by the end of 
Sept 2024 with instructions as to how to become a member. 
 
 
 
 
YOUR HOST ACADEMIC DEPARTMENT 
 
Imperial College London embodies and delivers world class scholarship, education and research in 
science, engineering, medicine and business, with particular regard to their application in industry, 
commerce and healthcare. 
 
INFORMATION FROM YOUR DEPARTMENT PRIOR TO YOUR ARRIVAL 
 
Please read ALL the information which your host academic department will have emailed you by 
Monday 23 September. This will indicate which events you are timetabled to attend (in person or 
remotely) during the welcome period, but also whether you have the time available to attend 
(remotely) other Imperial welcome events.  
 
If you are an exchange student and you have not received these instructions from your host academic 
department by 23 September, please email Adrian Hawksworth at a.hawksworth@imperial.ac.uk 
 
THE PEOPLE RESPONSIBLE FOR YOU IN YOUR HOST DEPARTMENT? 
 
• Undergraduate exchange students (admitted as an “undergraduate”: see previous note on page 12): 
The Departmental Exchange Programme Coordinator in the host academic department is normally 
16 
 
Imperial College London 
imperial.ac.uk
 
responsible for all aspects of an undergraduate exchange student’s stay in the host department. 
Please view the list of exchange co-ordinators at : http://www.imperial.ac.uk/placements/student-
exchanges/information-for-student-exchange-partner-universities. If you are unsure as to whom to contact 
in your host academic department email a.hawksworth@imperial.ac.uk 
 
• Postgraduate Exchange Students (admitted as a “postgraduate”: see previous note on page 12): If you 
are unsure as to whom to contact in your host academic department then email 
a.hawksworth@imperial.ac.uk 
 
• All Exchange Students should also read the guidance for student exchange partner universities at:  
http://www.imperial.ac.uk/placements/student-exchanges/information-for-student-exchange-partner-universities/  
 
• Non-exchange visiting (non-degree) students should normally contact the undergraduate or 
postgraduate students’ office (or equivalent) in their host academic department for guidance. 
However, most non-exchange students attend solely to undertake a project or a research period and 
therefore the person responsible for them is normally the project or research period supervisor. Some 
non-exchange students do attend for a full-year study plan on a fee-paying basis. 
 
DISCUSSING YOUR STUDY PLAN  
 
• Your proposed study plan (which you will have attached to your formal on-line application to study at 
Imperial) will have been evaluated as part of the admission process. 
 
• You are welcome to continue the discussion of your study plan with your host department in advance 
of arrival (especially if you are an Erasmus study exchange student and your home institution requires 
you to submit a signed learning agreement before your departure to London). 
 
• 
However, for most new visiting (non-degree) students who accept admission and who plan to 
undertake courses/modules their study plan will be discussed in full and finalised upon arrival (and 
this process may take several weeks for some students). This is normal. 
 
 
Exchange Students 
• 
If an Exchange Student has any queries about their study plan please email the exchange co-ordinator 
in 
their 
host 
department. 
A 
list 
of 
exchange 
co-ordinators 
can 
be 
found 
here: 
https://www.imperial.ac.uk/placements/student-exchanges/information-for-student-exchange-partner-universities/  
 
 
INDUCTION BY YOUR HOST DEPARTMENT 
 
• All NEW visiting students (exchange & non-exchange) should be informed by their host department 
(study plans) or supervisor (project or research period) by Monday 23 September as to what is 
expected of them in the week commencing Monday 30 September (and preferably for the remainder 
of week 1). If you have not heard from your host department by 23 September, please email 
a.hawksworth@imperial.ac.uk 
 
• Ordinarily, you will be required to undertake a departmental registration and to attend an initial 
(briefing) meeting with either the Departmental Exchange Programme Co-ordinator (study plans) or 
your supervisor (project or research period). The departmental registration and initial meeting 
should take place during the first week of the academic year, most commonly on Monday 30 
September or Tuesday 1 October, but occasionally later in the week. Elements of these 
17 
 
Imperial College London 
imperial.ac.uk
 
interactions may take place remotely. If you have not heard from your host department by 23 
September about the date of your “initial meeting” please email a.hawksworth@imperial.ac.uk 
 
• At the initial meeting you will normally learn more about (if you have not received such information in 
advance of your arrival) how your host academic department manages the academic administration 
for your study period (e.g. module/course registration; timetables; exams; exam registration; exam 
timetabling; study facilities; intranet learning environments; intranet document facilities for course 
materials; procedures). Depending on how much of a conversation you had with the host 
department ahead of arrival you will normally also have an opportunity to discuss your 
proposed study plan and/or project/research in more detail with the department and/or 
project supervisor. The latter conversations about your study plan might take place remotely.  
However, in some departments with sizeable cohorts (numbers) of exchange and non-exchange 
visiting students the initial meeting is a briefing meeting with general guidance which will be followed 
by an individual meeting between you and the department and/or project supervisor during the 
following days where you can discuss your own study plan or project. Elements of these 
interactions may take place remotely. 
 
• (if applicable) Departmental module/course registration (and access to timetables): The process 
for registering for modules differs from department to department. In some departments registration 
for modules takes place before you arrive, and you will be contacted by the host academic 
department. However, in some departments registration for modules takes place after arrival. If you 
did not receive guidance from your host academic department on registering for modules prior 
to your arrival at Imperial you should expect to receive this guidance at the “initial meeting”. 
See also the point below regarding “assessment” and the general advice about accessing modules (below). 
 
• Please note that there is normally no teaching on Monday 30 September or Tuesday 1 October. 
For most students teaching does not normally commence until either Thursday 3 October or 
Monday 7 October. However, in some departments teaching (usually master level content) might 
commence as early as Tuesday 1 October. It will depend on your study plan.  
 
• Do not be afraid, for example, to attend a lecture in Week 1 if you think it is relevant even if you 
have not registered to take the module. The first lecture in a series is normally an introduction. If 
you are asked to explain your presence we suggest that you state that you are a visiting/exchange 
student who is sampling a course prior to confirming participation with the department. That will 
normally be sufficient. 
 
• (if applicable) Assessment: If your study plan requires you to undertake examinations (and/or other 
forms of formal assessment, e.g. assessed coursework) then the process for this should be explained 
to you by your host academic department. This level of detail is normally provided in a student 
handbook (normally web-based) produced by the host academic department. The timetabling of 
examinations also differs from department to department (i.e. the students of one department might 
be told this information at the beginning of the year while the students of another department might 
be told at the appropriate moment during the academic year.) While the main examination season is 
the summer term other formal assessments and examinations may take place at other times (e.g. 
during a module; end of module; end of term). 
 
 
 
 
 
18 
 
Imperial College London 
imperial.ac.uk
 
ADDITIONAL ADVICE ABOUT ACCESSING MODULES 
(sometimes “modules” are called “courses”): 
 
   (1) The majority of new visiting (non-degree) students will only take modules provided by the host 
academic department or where access to modules taught by other academic departments comprises 
part of the host academic department’s curriculum (including undergraduate humanities and 
language modules taught by the Centre for Languages, Culture and Communication and 
undergraduate management modules taught by the Imperial College Business School).  
 
 
(2) Otherwise, please do not ask to take modules taught by other academic departments unless 
you have the approval of your host academic department, and in the case of exchange 
students, your home university. To repeat:  it is very important that you do not approach other 
academic departments for access to modules unless you have the approval of your host 
academic department. Access to modules taught by other academic departments cannot be 
guaranteed. However, should you receive approval from your host academic department to approach 
another academic department, (1) they (your host academic department) will normally expect you to 
arrange such access, and to be responsible for ensuring you meet the needs/demands of the “other” 
academic department and (2) the results/marks for examinations and other assessments for modules 
taught by “other” academic departments (i.e. other than your “host” department) need to be reported 
(communicated) by the “other” academic department to your “host” academic department for 
processing with your other exam results/assessments. It would be your responsibility to ensure 
this happens.    Please note that we cannot guarantee access in this manner, nor that should 
you be given approval to do so that there will not be timetable clashes/examination clashes. 
 
ADDITIONAL ADVICE ABOUT PROJECTS AND RESEARCH PERIODS: 
 
• 
If, as part of a study plan, an undergraduate visiting student wishes to also take a project the host 
academic dept will decide whether they are able to offer access to a suitable (appropriate) project 
“module” from the host dept’s curriculum. If the host academic dept can provide access to a suitable 
(appropriate) project “module” from the host dept’s curriculum that access would normally indicate 
how the project is allocated (i.e. do you have choice; are you just allocated a project etc).  As the 
project is a “module” from the curriculum it means that Imperial will assess and allocate a 
mark for your project regardless of any intention by your home university to mark a project report 
separately. This is normal. However, there can be exceptions and the exchange programme co-
ordinator in your host academic dept would indicate what the process is.  
 
• 
Visiting (non-degree) students (undergraduate, postgraduate) whose study plan will be a single long 
project or research period would normally pursue this on an “independent” basis (i.e. the project or 
research period would not be part of the host dept’s curriculum) and would not be formally assessed 
by the host academic department. However, there are some exceptions (for example, undergraduate 
visiting students in Departments of Aeronautics, Chemistry and Chemical Engineering can discuss 
having their “independent” projects formally assessed).  
 
• 
Visiting (non-degree) students (undergraduate, postgraduate) whose study plan will be a single long 
project or research period have a responsibility to discuss with their project or research period 
supervisor – in advance of a project or research period starting - the extent, if any, that their home 
university are requesting the supervisor to contribute informally or formally to any assessment by the 
home university. See also the advice (below) about learning agreements and transcripts. 
 
 
19 
 
Imperial College London 
imperial.ac.uk
 
MISCELLANENOUS INFORMATION: 
 
• 
Student Support Zone: Provides “well-being” support for you as a member of our student 
community: https://www.imperial.ac.uk/student-support-zone/  
 
• 
In accordance with Imperial’s pastoral care (student welfare) system, all visiting students should 
expect to be allocated (by their host academic department) a personal tutor or a supervisor 
depending on the nature of their study period (modules, modules/project, project, research period). 
When you are introduced to your academic department at the “initial meeting” make sure you 
understand what support you have access to. The “personal tutor” for an exchange student is 
often, but not always, the department’s exchange programme co-ordinator. 
 
• 
Your host dept will monitor the attendance of all students, and special attention will be taken of 
student visa holders. Your host department might utilise functionality on My Imperial Campus App. 
 
• 
English Language Support & Library Services: see later sections on page 22. 
 
• 
Virtual Learning Environments: Your host academic department will indicate what VLE is in use. 
Commonly, it is Blackboard or Panopto although some departments use other additional VLEs. Your 
host academic department will advise you. 
 
• Requests to change the dates of your study period (which may occur due to a change in your 
circumstances) will not be automatically approved: Discuss first with your host dept.  
       = If you are a non-UK/Ireland national, it may not be possible to extend a period of study due to 
immigration restrictions (i.e. your visa or immigration clearance may not allow it). You should first 
check with International Student Support. 
       = Your host academic department should email any agreed change to your dates of attendance to 
Imperial’s Student Records team (Registry) (student.records@imperial.ac.uk) who will formally check 
and, if acceptable, process the change. 
       = Exchange students should also discuss changes to dates of attendance (at Imperial) with their home 
institution before pursuing any formal consideration of the change at Imperial. 
     Changes to dates of attendance should not be considered approved UNTIL they are confirmed by 
Imperial’s Student Records team (Registry) and displayed on My Imperial. 
 
 
 
DOCUMENTS 
 
Statements of enrolment (attendance): https://www.imperial.ac.uk/student-records-and-data/for-current-
students/request-an-official-document/   
 
Certificates of arrival/attendance:  A student who requires a certificate of arrival or a certificate of 
attendance to be completed, signed and stamped by Imperial (i.e. a form provided by a third party, such 
as their home university/college or a financial sponsor) should take it to the Student Hub in person (take 
your ID card), where a member of the (Registry) Student Records team will assist, or they should email it 
to student.records@imperial.ac.uk. !!Exception!!: Exchange students should send such documents to 
Mr Adrian Hawksworth for completion: a.hawksworth@imperial.ac.uk  
 
 
 
 
20 
 
Imperial College London 
imperial.ac.uk
 
Learning Agreements for Studies (normally Erasmus study exchange students only) 
• 
IF the BEFORE section of your learning agreement has not been completed by the host academic 
department and returned to you prior to your arrival at Imperial, you should speak to the 
Departmental Exchange Programme Co-ordinator in your host academic department to locate it. It is 
quite common for this part of a learning agreement to be completed after you arrive. 
 
• 
Learning Agreements normally only require to be signed by your host academic department 
(by the Departmental Exchange Programme Co-ordinator). However, if your particular learning 
agreement requires an institutional (university) level signature then please note that you must ensure 
that the BEFORE section of your Learning Agreement is completed in full and has been signed by 
the Dept Exchange Programme Co-ordinator in your host academic department before you ask 
Adrian Hawksworth (a.hawksworth@imperial.ac.uk) to sign/stamp it. 
 
• 
Modifications to Erasmus study plans should utilise the DURING section of your Learning Agreement 
as necessary during your study period, i.e. some students will not have to use this section of the 
learning agreement. 
 
• 
Complete the AFTER section with the assistance of both your home and host Departmental Exchange 
Programme Co-ordinators at the end of your study period. However, the “AFTER” section is not a 
substitute for a transcript issued by Imperial College London (see next section on transcripts) and 
Imperial will normally not insert academic results in the AFTER section. 
 
Learning Agreements for Traineeships (normally Erasmus Traineeship students only) 
If you are mobile within the Erasmus Traineeship Scheme and are being hosted at Imperial as a visiting 
student (non-degree; non-exchange) for an independent project or research period, then your host 
supervisor will normally be responsible for ensuring that your learning agreement is processed in your 
host department. Please address any questions to your supervisor. If the supervisor of an Erasmus 
Trainee has queries concerning the administration of a learning agreement they can email 
a.hawksworth@imperial.ac.uk  
 
 
Release of official marks/grades on My Imperial 
Issuing of a Transcript (an e-transcript) on My Imperial (My Documents) 
 
This section is divided into two parts (A & B). 
 
(Part A) for students who have been formally assessed/examined by Imperial (curriculum only) 
 
An “transcript” is an official document issued by Imperial which lists a.) any formal 
assessments/examinations a student has registered for*, b.) records the mark achieved for each 
assessment/examination and c.) lists the ECTS credit awarded if the assessment has been undertaken 
successfully. 
 
Please note that a “transcript” in the form of an e-transcript can only be made available to you 
once your official marks have been formally published by Imperial’s Registry on your My Imperial 
(My Student Record) account.  
 
Official marks for undergraduate modules will appear on My Imperial from mid-July through to 
the end of August, while for postgraduates it may be as late as October-November. Where an 
undergraduate visiting student has undertaken a purely postgraduate module we do try to release official 
mark as early as possible. 
21 
 
Imperial College London 
imperial.ac.uk
 
IMPORTANT – How an e-transcript is issued: 
 
• 
Imperial’s Assessment Records team will email students to let them know their results have been 
released to My Imperial.  
 
• 
A student’s transcript (use the e-transcript version) will be accessible on My Imperial within 5 working 
days of them receiving that email. Once official marks are displayed on My Imperial a student will be 
given access to an e-transcript which they can download (as a PDF) via the My Documents section of 
My Imperial. 
 
• 
A transcript will list all modules which you have registered for. Therefore, if you decide to not take the 
exam at the conclusion of the module it will be recorded as a zero mark on the transcript. 
 
• 
If your home university needs it to be sent via a secure route then follow the instructions for “sharing 
a document with other people”. There is a user guide (see page 18 for “sharing a document with other 
people”) and accompanying FAQs.  
 
• 
If you happen to send a PDF of your e-transcript to your home university but they remind you that 
they actually need to be sent a secure version then advise your home university to scan the QR code 
on the e-transcript and enter their details, and then YOU will then need to authorise the release of the 
information to them (see also page 18 of the user guide). 
 
• 
Exchange students only: Imperial will also send a copy of a e-transcript (as a pdf) to an exchange 
student’s home university. This action will be completed no later than the end of August 2025, unless 
the release of official marks has been delayed for some reason (e.g. resit examinations, about which 
see below) in which case Imperial will issue your transcript as soon as possible thereafter. 
 
• 
Exchange students only: Please note that if you only attended Imperial in the autumn term your 
transcript will not be available until summer 2025. Universities that send exchange students for only 
the autumn term are aware of this. 
 
• 
Exchange students only: A host department may be willing in exceptional circumstances to 
communicate marks - on an unofficial basis - to an exchange student’s home institution at a date 
earlier than when they might be expected to be published on My Imperial.  Departments are normally 
willing to do this only to assist certain students who are due to start their next academic year (or who 
are due to graduate) shortly after leaving Imperial and their home university need guidance on the 
student’s level of achievement. However, this is always at the discretion of the host academic 
dept and neither an exchange student nor their home institution can demand it. Universities 
that send exchange students to Imperial are aware of this. Speak to the Exchange Programme 
Coordinator in your host academic department for guidance. Also, Erasmus students should note that 
the “AFTER” section of the Learning Agreement for Studies is not a substitute for a transcript. 
 
• 
Should a student not pass (i.e. “fail”) an examination they can discuss it with their Dept’s 
Exchange Co-ordinator and with their home institution. There is no obligation for a student to ask for a 
resit, and equally Imperial does not guarantee to allow re-sits for visiting students. A fee might apply. 
 
(Part B): Independent projects and research periods (non-curriculum) 
• 
If you are attending Imperial to only undertake an “independent” project or research period (i.e. a 
project or research period which is not a formal part of Imperial’s curriculum) then you would not be 
issued with an e-transcript. Instead, if you require a statement on your performance you should ask 
your “independent” project or research period supervisor to kindly provide you with one. 
 
22 
 
Imperial College London 
imperial.ac.uk
 
• 
If you are undertaking an “independent” project or research period (i.e. a project or research period 
which is not a formal part of Imperial’s curriculum) as part of a broader study plan (that includes 
modules) then you would not expect to have the outcome of your independent project or research 
period to appear on your e-transcript. Instead, if you require a statement on your performance you 
should ask your “independent” project or research period supervisor to kindly provide you with one. 
    
 
 
 
ENGLISH LANGUAGE SUPPORT 
 
Centre for Academic English 
• 
All visiting (non-degree) students can access The Centre for Academic English free-of-charge. 
• 
Guidance available at: http://www.imperial.ac.uk/academic-english/current-students/undergraduate/ 
• 
The Centre for Academic English is accessed via Level 3, Sherfield Building, South Kensington 
Campus (access to the south of the Great Hall) 
• 
General information on the Centre can be found at: https://www.imperial.ac.uk/academic-english/about-us/    
 
Language exchange/pairing 
• 
The Centre for Language, Culture and Communication operates a language exchange (pairing) 
scheme: https://www.imperial.ac.uk/languages/clcc-language-exchange/   
• 
An alternative method of obtaining an informal language partner is to meet English-speaking students 
through the Erasmus Club, or just by making friends!! 
 
 
 
 
LIBRARY FACILITIES 
 
You will be able to automatically access library services when you have completed Imperial enrolment, 
and your Imperial ID card works as your library card – use it to swipe into the library, borrow books and 
operate the printer-copiers. 
 
Library induction for exchange students is normally organised by their host academic 
department, but any visiting student can also reach out themselves to the subject librarian for your 
department: https://www.imperial.ac.uk/admin-services/library/subject-support/ 
 
For further details see: https://www.imperial.ac.uk/admin-services/library/library-services-for-new-students/  
 
 
 
 
DISABILITY ADVISORY SERVICE 
 
If you have a disability you can raise any concerns/questions you may have with Imperial’s Disability 
Advisory 
Service 
on 
disability@imperial.ac.uk 
or 
Tel: 
 
020 
759 
49755. 
 
See 
www.imperial.ac.uk/disabilityadvisoryservice  
 
Each department has a Disability Officer:  http://www.imperial.ac.uk/disability-advisory-service/about-us/departmental-disability-officers/   
 
Read about other support services (including those that support students with mental health) in our 
Student Support Zone 
 
23 
 
Imperial College London 
imperial.ac.uk
 
 
 
HEALTH CARE IN THE UK and registering with a doctor 
 
If you are not already a resident of the UK you need to ensure you have appropriate health insurance 
cover for your stay in the UK and know how and where to access health care (including in an emergency). 
 
• If you enter the UK on a Student Route visa you will have had to pay (as part of the visa application) the 
Immigration Health Surcharge). When resident as a student in the UK for more than 6 months on a 
Student Route visa you have access to the National Health Service (NHS) in the same way as a 
permanent UK resident, i.e., they will receive NHS care generally free of charge but may be charged 
for services a permanent resident would also pay for, such as eye tests, dental treatment and 
prescription charges (i.e. prescribed items of medicine by a GP/Doctor) in England. 
 
     Important: Full-time students from the EU, Norway, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Switzerland studying in 
     the UK may be eligible for a reimbursement of the Immigration Health Surcharge. Further details at  
     (external: UK Government website): https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-health-surcharge-for-eu-students-in-the-uk 
 
• If you are a student entering the UK as a Visitor you are advised to possess comprehensive sickness 
insurance (CSI) and follow the instructions provided by your insurer when you need to access 
healthcare. You will need to pay for any NHS care you get at the point you use it - unless it’s an NHS 
service that’s free [external]. The NHS generally functions on a treat first pay later basis in the case of 
an emergency admission to a hospital. Always keep evidence of your health insurance on your person. 
 
• A student is expected to have purchased travel insurance for their travel to and from and for their stay 
in the UK. Please note that travel insurance will not always be an appropriate form of insurance cover 
– for health purposes - when someone is living in another country for a prolonged period. 
 
• We suggest consulting the webpages of the UK Council for International Student Affairs (UKCISA) for 
more detailed guidance on healthcare in the UK (and, if applicable, any visa conditions or right of 
residency 
rules 
applicable 
to 
your 
personal 
circumstances). 
UKCISA 
link 
(external): 
https://www.ukcisa.org.uk/Information--Advice/Studying--living-in-the-UK/Health-and-healthcare 
 
Registering with a doctor (GP: General Practitioner) 
The Imperial College Health Centre (external): https://www.imperialcollegehealthcentre.co.uk/  
• You cannot register with the NHS, until you arrive in the UK. 
• All students (regardless of their health insurance position) should check whether they are eligible to register at 
the Imperial College Health Centre. Students who find themselves ineligible should note the “out-of-area” patient 
registration 
which 
might, 
depending 
on 
your 
circumstances, 
remain 
relevant: 
https://www.imperialcollegehealthcentre.co.uk/new-patients/new-student-checklist/  
• If you are not eligible (based on the post-code of your accommodation in London) to register at the Imperial 
College Health Centre then you would need to locate a health-centre/doctor’s practice in the area you live. 
Students who are living in Imperial or private halls of residence will probably find that this information is freely 
provided while a student in private accommodation might simply need to ask those they share with or go to 
https://www.nhs.uk/Service-Search/find-a-gp (external: UK Government website). 
• If you have private healthcare then your policy might prescribe with whom you seek medical care. 
• Further information: https://www.imperial.ac.uk/student-support-zone/your-health/doctor-and-dentist/  
 
 
 
 
24 
 
Imperial College London 
imperial.ac.uk
 
 
VARIOUS 
 
• 
Living in London: http://www.imperial.ac.uk/study/living-in-london .  
 
• 
Imperial sports and leisure facilities (Move Imperial): http://www.imperial.ac.uk/sport/. Imperial has 
a sports centre called Ethos ( www.imperial.ac.uk/ethos ) located on the South Kensington Campus. 
Other sports and leisure facilities exist (check the website). Visiting Students can access these 
facilities in the same way as a full-degree student. Once enrolled (membership) a student would use 
their Imperial ID card as their “membership” card. Fees may apply. 
 
• 
Places to eat on campus (operated by Imperial): http://www.imperial.ac.uk/food-and-drink/. 
Please note: most cafes/restaurants are open to all students. The exceptions are mainly on the South 
Kensington Campus: SCR (Staff & postgraduate research students only); The Roastery (part of the 
SCR: staff and postgraduate research students only); the Garden Room Restaurant (Staff only). 
 
• 
Places to eat and drink operated by the Imperial College Union https://www.imperialcollegeunion.org/food-drink 
 
• 
Please note that most outlets on campus operate on a cashless basis. You can pay with 
contactless and chip and pin cards as well as with Yoyo. 
 
• 
Supermarkets can be found locally to the South Kensington campus (Sainsbury’s, Waitrose) and a 
Tesco in the Earls Court/West Ken area. There is a small convenience store called “Essentials” located 
in Eastside, Princes Gardens. Halls of Residence will also indicate the nearest food shopping options. 
 
 
 
 
TRAVELLING IN THE LONDON AREA 
 
Within London, public transport (comprised of Buses, the Tube, ‘Overground’ Train services, South 
London Trams, National Rail Services In London, Elizabeth line, River Boat and Dockland Light Railway- 
DLR) is managed by Transport for London (TfL) [external]: http://www.tfl.gov.uk.  
 
The TfL website is an external site and Imperial College London is not responsible for its content. TfL 
operate with full respect towards everyone’s safety: https://tfl.gov.uk/campaign/safer-travel-guidance. 
 
Travel (and its cost) is based on Zones (on maps of the TfL network these display themselves as 
concentric circles from the centre – Zones 1 to 9) with normally increased cost when travelling within or 
through the central Zone, Zone 1).  
 
• Ahead 
of 
arrival, 
you 
can 
set 
up 
an 
oyster 
or 
contactless 
payment 
account: 
https://tfl.gov.uk/fares/contactless-and-oyster-account?intcmp=54644 . This provides access to the 
cheapest single journey prices while you decide as to what will best serve your weekly travel needs 
 
• If you don’t opt to set up an oyster or contactless payment account before arriving in London then, of 
course, you can do so at any time.  
 
• However, if you have yet to decide what you need and would prefer not to use your bank card or smart 
phone to pay “as you go” then you can pay £5 (non-returnable) at any tube station for a regular 
‘oyster’ card (top up and then pay as you go). This provides access to the cheapest single journey 
prices while you decide as to what will best serve your weekly travel needs.  
25 
 
Imperial College London 
imperial.ac.uk
 
 
• Your daily Monday to Friday routine will determine whether you can save more money by purchasing a 
‘travelcard’ or ‘season ticket’ (depending on the type of transport) for your daily journey.  
 
• Therefore, if you are living in accommodation at a distance (i.e. a regular tube/bus/train journey away) 
from the Imperial campus where you will be taught you may benefit from applying for an 18+ Student 
Oyster Photocard (note: the 18+ Student Oyster Photocard Discount Scheme is operated by 
Transport for London). The 18+ Student Oyster Photocard provides discounted travel (currently 
30%) on an adult-rate (weekly/monthly) ‘travelcard’ or ‘season ticket’. Information on all the 
options at: https://tfl.gov.uk/fares/free-and-discounted-travel?intcmp=54647   
 
• To be eligible for an 18+ Student Oyster Photocard you need to be an enrolled student at 
Imperial on a full-time basis, living at a London address during term-time, for a minimum of 14 
weeks.  
 
• The online application procedure for an 18+ Student Oyster Photocard will cost you (admin fee) 
£20. You must have a bank account (UK or non-UK). You must upload a photo of yourself. You can 
apply as soon as you have enrolled on-line with Imperial College. Transport for London request 
the endorsement of Imperial College London before your application is processed, and Imperial seeks 
to do this as quickly as possible. 
 
• Further advice available: http://www.imperial.ac.uk/student-records-and-data/for-current-students/student-travel-discounts/ 
 
• However, if you are living within walking or cycling distance of the South Kensington Campus 
(i.e., your daily travel is not by public transport) it may not be cost-effective to purchase a 
“season” ticket, and therefore no need to apply for an 18+ Student Oyster Photocard. 
 
• If you think you will do a lot of rail travel in the UK beyond London you can also think about obtaining a 
National Rail 16-25 Young Persons Railcard [external link] to save money on off-peak rail travel. 
 
• It is your decision to make! 
 
 
 
UK BANK ACCOUNTS 
• 
If you plan to open a bank account in the UK, please review the information at: 
        https://www.imperial.ac.uk/student-records-and-data/for-current-students/request-an-official-document/  (scroll down) 
• 
There are no banks on the South Kensington campus.  Banks located on nearby “high streets”. 
• 
However, it is often difficult to open bank accounts in the UK when you are resident here for short 
periods. Here is some banking advice for visiting students here for less than 6 months. 
 
 
 
COUNCIL TAX 
• 
Council Tax is a local tax set by local government to help pay for local services like policing and 
refuse collection. It applies to all domestic properties. Students living in Imperial halls of 
residence are automatically exempt from paying Council Tax.   
• 
Students living in other forms of accommodation should read: 
        https://www.imperial.ac.uk/student-records-and-data/for-current-students/request-an-official-document/ (scroll)  
• 
The Student Hub can assist with general Council Tax queries/questions. 
 
 
26 
 
Imperial College London 
imperial.ac.uk
 
 
MAKING THE MOST OF YOUR TIME IN THE  
UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT BRITAIN & NORTHERN IRELAND 
 
Yes, that is the full title of the UK! There is so much to see and do in our wonderful country, within and 
outside London. Make the most of the opportunity by exploring the activities provided by the many clubs 
and societies of the Imperial College Union. Our International Student Support team also offer a 
programme of activities at the start of the academic year and a programme of activities throughout the 
academic year, e.g. Day trips, Do it yourself trips  
 
