1 
 
Student Code of Conduct 
 
The Student Code of Conduct is designed to supplement the College’s Code of Ethics by providing 
detailed explanations and examples of unacceptable behaviour.  
The purpose of this Code is to encourage and maintain standards of conduct by students consistent 
with the values and expectations of the Imperial community. 
The Code applies to conduct both on and off the College’s campuses and premises, as well as online. 
It also applies to students engaged in Imperial College Union (ICU) activities. 
The Code is complementary to, and does not replace, other standards, regulations, or professional 
conduct requirements applying to students in the College. 
The Code of conduct should be read in conjunction with the College’s Ethics Code. 
Respect for each other and our surroundings 
• 
Students should treat others as they themselves would like to be treated, with dignity and 
due respect at all times. The College community is one in which discrimination, bullying, 
harassment, and victimisation are never tolerated. 
• 
Students should treat others equitably and work to create an inclusive environment in which 
everyone is safe to speak up and share their perspective. Students are encouraged to be 
curious and seek to understand diverse perspectives. 
• 
Students should take responsibility for their behaviour and their impact on others. Students 
should consider and respond to the needs of others, ensuring communications with others 
are considerate and respectful. 
• 
Our campuses, property and facilities should be treated with respect. They are for the safe 
and enjoyable use of all our community and should be used for their designated purposes 
and not intentionally or recklessly damaged or defaced. 
• 
Whilst freedom of speech or expression is an important right for all in our community, it is 
not an unqualified right. It is important to remember that a person’s right to freedom of 
speech means lawful freedom of speech. That means that speech (or other expressions of 
views, such as slogans, tattoos, literature, emails, etc), that might be criminal in nature (for 
example, inciting racial hatred; or displaying threatening, abusive or insulting writing likely 
to cause harassment, alarm or distress), or otherwise in breach of civil law (for example, 
causing a breach of the peace, or harassment), is not protected by a person’s right to 
freedom of speech or expression. It is very important therefore that members of our 
community engage in debate in a way that is respectful: how something is said or expressed 
needs to be given as much consideration as what is said or expressed.  
• 
Other examples of misconduct include but are not restricted to: 
o disruption of, or improper interference with, the academic, administrative, sporting, 
social or other activities of the College or Imperial College Union; 
o disruption of College business, including teaching, research and studying that is not 
authorised pursuant to a College recognised ballot or process;  
o misuse or unauthorised use of College premises, facilities, or items of property; 
2 
 
o disregard of the health and safety of self or others whilst on College campuses or 
undertaking College activities; 
o disregard for laboratory safety requirements following a warning from teaching staff 
or laboratory technicians; 
o wearing clothes, other items, or having visible tattoos with slogans or symbols that 
might constitute a breach of the criminal or civil law of England and Wales; 
o distributing material, including online material, which is intimidating, threatening, 
indecent or illegal; and intentionally or recklessly harming other individuals or 
putting others at risk of harm. 
Honesty and integrity  
• 
Students should demonstrate a commitment to independence, honesty, and transparency. 
They should be honest and truthful in their dealings with each other and with third parties.  
• 
Students engaged in research activities should conduct their research in a way that supports 
public trust and confidence in the College’s research methods and findings. They should 
demonstrate rigour, honesty and integrity, and abide by relevant ethical and legal standards.  
• 
Students should not become complicit in any activities in which a student gains an unfair 
advantage, through plagiarism, self-plagiarism, collusion, examination offences, dishonest 
practice, or other means. Students should comply with the College’s Policy on Academic 
Misconduct.  
• 
Examples of misconduct include but are not restricted to: 
o behaviour which brings the College into disrepute [this does not include 
whistleblowing];  
o academic misconduct: cheating, fabrication, plagiarism, collusion, facilitating 
academic dishonesty, claiming authorship of others’ work, or the submission of work 
for assessment which has been generated through an artificial intelligence of 
translation programme without acknowledgement or authorisation; 
o research misconduct: fabrication or falsification of information or data, 
misrepresentation of data and/or interests or involvement, plagiarism, and failure to 
follow accepted procedures or to exercise due care in carrying out research; 
o failure to disclose one’s name or other relevant details to an officer or employee of 
the College or ICU in circumstances where it is reasonable to require that such 
information be given; 
o making vexatious (such as frivolous allegations, or repeated allegations based on 
substantively the same matter that has been dealt with), allegations against a 
member of the College (allegations that are made in good faith are not vexatious, 
even if they are not upheld after they have been investigated); and 
o professional conduct violations. 
Sexual misconduct and abuse 
• 
Sexual misconduct (i.e., sexual harassment, sexual violence) is never tolerated. All students 
are expected to act to ensure a working and learning environment free from these 
behaviours.   
3 
 
• 
Sexual misconduct is any act of violence or harassment which is sexual in nature or any kind 
of unwanted, non-consensual1 sexual touching, or harassment, within or outside a 
relationship. This may include rape, sexual assault, sexual exploitation or groping. It also 
covers behaviours such as grooming, coercion, the promise of a reward for sexual access and 
sexual demands or threats. 
• 
In addition to these, other examples, performed without consent, which might constitute 
sexual misconduct include: 
o sexually explicit remarks, innuendos or banter; 
o sexual insults, jokes, teasing or songs; 
o wolf whistling, cat calling or making other offensive sexual noises; 
o offensive comments about someone’s dress, appearance, or private life, including 
their sexuality or gender identity; 
o unwanted or inappropriate physical contact including touching, pinching, groping or 
smacking; 
o unwanted requests to engage in or discuss sexual activity; 
o lifting or removing clothing;  
o stalking;  
o using humour to cover or deflect where sexual misconduct has occurred; 
o display or distribution of pornographic or sexually explicit material. 
 
• 
Stalking is persistent and unwanted conduct of one or more kinds of behaviours described 
above. It can be physical or psychological and take place directly against a person, or by 
approaching a third party about a person. The more common examples of stalking are 
following a person home, following a person around, between or to/from campus, sending 
or leaving them unwanted and repeated messages, bullying them on social media or making 
intrusive or unwanted visits. Interpersonal relationships between individuals can also be 
abusive without a sexual element to the behaviour, and can include emotional, financial or 
physical abuse, threats, isolation or intimidation. They may involve bullying or coercive 
behaviours used to maintain power or control.  
Bullying, harassment, and discrimination 
• 
We do not tolerate bullying or harassment. 
• 
We do not tolerate any form of discrimination against any other person on grounds of any 
protected characteristic (age, disability, race, including colour, nationality, ethnic or national 
origin, religion or belief, sex, sexual orientation, being pregnant or on maternity leave, being 
married or in a civil partnership, or gender confirmation). Nor do we tolerate any form of 
targeting an individual on account their personal attributes.  This includes but is not limited 
to a medical condition, e.g. HIV status, or socio-economic status.  
• 
Harassment occurs where an individual engages in unwanted conduct which has the 
purpose or effect of violating another person’s dignity, or creating an intimidating, hostile, 
 
1 This includes where consent has not been given.  Consent means that a person must be capable to 
choose freely to engage. If the person was constrained in any way, pressured, or incapacitated, consent 
cannot be deemed to have been given. Proceeding without consent is never acceptable.  More 
information can be found at: What is consent? (cps.gov.uk). 
4 
 
degrading or offensive environment for that person. An individual may feel harassed or 
offended even when the inappropriate comment or conduct is not made towards or about 
the individual personally.  
• 
Harassment can be both a criminal offence and a breach of civil law.  In general it can take a 
variety of different forms which can be written, verbal, nonverbal or transmitted 
electronically, may consist of a single incident or a series of incidents, and may or may not 
be intentional. Examples include repeatedly ignoring a person through to subjecting him or 
her to unwelcome attention, ridicule or humiliation. More extreme forms of harassment and 
bullying include intimidation, physical threats or violence.  
• 
Types of harassment include sexual harassment (discussed above), and harassment on the 
basis of a protected characteristic, or about the personal attributes of a person. This may 
include but is not limited to inappropriate gestures or jokes about, or gratuitous references 
to, a person’s characteristic. It can also include inappropriate displays of posters, or other 
offensive material, and singling out of a person for different treatment on the basis of a 
characteristic. Examples of some types of harassment include but is not limited to: 
 
o Racial harassment may also include offensive remarks about dress, culture or 
customs which have the effect of ridiculing or undermining an individual, or 
fostering hatred and/or prejudice towards individuals or particular ethnic groups. In 
some circumstances it can include pressure to participate in political/religious 
groups.  
o Harassment of disabled people can take the form of individuals being ignored, 
disparaged, ridiculed or denied opportunities because of mistaken assumptions 
about their capabilities. In such cases, disability, rather than ability, has become the 
focus of attention. 
o Harassment on the grounds of actual or perceived sexual orientation or sexuality can 
include queerphobic remarks or jokes relating to a person’s sexuality, or threats to 
disclose a person’s sexuality to others.   
o Harassment on the grounds of religious belief can include jokes or insults about 
items of clothing, religious artefacts, religious beliefs or rituals.  
o Harassment on the grounds of gender confirmation or gender identity can include 
transphobic remarks or jokes, name calling, humiliation, and exclusion.  
o Harassment on the grounds of age can include jokes or insults about a person’s age, 
or singling a person out for different treatment as a result of their age. 
o Harassment on the grounds of other characteristics which can include but is not 
restricted to pregnancy, maternity and paternity status, marital status including civil 
partnerships. 
o Persistent invasion of personal space, whether of a sexual or non-sexual manner. 
  
• 
There is no legal definition of bullying: whether an individual considers that they have been 
bullied is subjective and so it is very important to be mindful of whether your behaviour 
could be interpreted as being bullying. However, there are behaviours that are generally 
recognised as constituting bullying, such as the exercise of power over another person 
through persistent, negative acts or behaviour that undermines an individual, personally 
and/or professionally. Bullying can be threatening, insulting, abusive, disparaging or 
5 
 
intimidating behaviour placing inappropriate pressure on the recipient which can affect self-
confidence and self-esteem or has the effect of isolating or excluding them. Bullying can take 
the form of persistent shouting, sarcasm or derogatory remarks; it can be constant criticism, 
without constructive support, to assist an individual to address performance concerns; it 
may also include cyber bullying, i.e. using the Internet and related technologies to harm 
another person in a deliberate, repeated and hostile manner. 
• 
The following non-exhaustive list gives examples of behaviour that may also constitute 
harassment or bullying:  
 
o offensive or inappropriate comments, body language, jokes, innuendos or gestures  
o openly hostile, insulting, abusive or embarrassing comments or criticism  
o persistently demeaning, ridiculing, excluding or isolating someone  
o threats to disclose, or disclosing, private or personal information, including photographs 
(this includes posting information online) 
o comments, notes, publications or posts on social media that are derisory, disparaging, 
abusive, offensive or intimidating  
o knowingly addressing or referring to someone using a pronoun (for example, he or she) 
with which an individual does not identify. 
o impersonating another person (e.g. by setting up an online profile in their name) 
o microagression, where it is subtle and/or indirect 
 
• 
Victimisation: this is when a person is treated unfairly because they have complained about 
being discriminated against or harassed. We will not tolerate victimisation against an 
individual because they have made, or intend to make, a complaint or allegation, or has 
given, or intends to give, assistance and/or evidence in an investigation.  
Other misconduct 
• 
Further examples of misconduct which may result in disciplinary action being taken include, 
but are not restricted to: 
 
o failure to comply with a previously imposed sanction or restriction under the College’s or 
the Union’s disciplinary procedures (including non-payment of financial compensation); 
o failure to attend a disciplinary interview or provide a statement / response to alleged 
misconduct when requested to do so by the relevant authorised person. 
